Add PR and issue templates (#479)
open-vsx/publish-extensions: docs/external_contribution_request.md

## Issue title

Publish `EXTENSION_NAME` to Open VSX

## Issue body

Please consider publishing the extension to the OpenVSX registry.

We are running the Web version of VS Code at Gitpod. The problem is, that only Microsoft products like VS Code may use the MS VS Code extensions Marketplace, so we must use Open VSX instead. It is a vendor neutral alternative. Also, products like VSCodium, Theia, code-server many other projects are using the registry to allow their users to install extensions. 

> The docs for publishing the extension are here: https://github.com/eclipse/openvsx/wiki/Publishing-Extensions. Technically this should be straightforward. You basically must get a token and call `ovsx publish` with it. For example, this is how RedHat publishes their java extension: redhat-developer/vscode-java@ff51dbf/Jenkinsfile#L73-L82

Reviewer: This PR: https://github.com/open-vsx/publish-extensions/pull/483/files and this PR are closely related. 

I think we should reference the other PR docs from within this issue template (we can do in a subsequent PR, we don't need to couple them together). But it's so that we make it super clear in these docs to the extension maintainers _why_ it's important that they should publish the extensions themselves.

Author: Added a mention in [`87eee1b` (#479)](https://github.com/open-vsx/publish-extensions/pull/479/commits/87eee1b075673cc149db2ea33e0def14957827a4).

## Issue title

Publish `EXTENSION_NAME` to Open VSX

## Issue body

> Please consider publishing the extension to the OpenVSX registry. 

Reviewer 2: Unfortunately MS prohibits usages of MS marketplace by any other products or redistribution vsix files from it. Because of it we kindly ask you to take the ownership of your namespace in [OpenVSX](https://open-vsx.org/) and publish there as well.

OpenVSX is a vendor neutral alternative to MS marketplace used by all other derivatives of VS Code like [VSCodium](https://vscodium.com/), [Gitpod](gitpod.io), [OpenVSCode](https://github.com/gitpod-io/openvscode-server), [Theia](https://theia-ide.org/) based IDEs, and so on.

The docs for publishing the extension are [here](https://github.com/eclipse/openvsx/wiki/Publishing-Extensions). Technically this should be straightforward. You get a token and call `ovsx publish` with it. For example, this is how RedHat publishes their java extension: [redhat-developer/vscode-java@ff51dbf/Jenkinsfile#L73-L82](https://github.com/redhat-developer/vscode-java/blob/5d4f8d58b8e919534800ca7bc41e8513c288f573/Jenkinsfile#L78-L82)

[Here](https://github.com/PeterWone/vsc-print/pull/121) is also an example PR to contribute release GH action which can publish to GitHub, MS and OpenVSX at the same time. Let @filiptronicek @akosyakov know if you are opened to a PR contributing such GH action. They would be glad to help.

Gitpod as well support open source developers by providing unlimited access to platform. Feel free to reach out via https://www.gitpod.io/docs/professional-open-source

Reviewer 2: Let's try such template instead, please use permalinks as in text.

We are running the Web version of VS Code at Gitpod. The problem is, that only Microsoft products like VS Code may use the MS VS Code extensions Marketplace, so we must use Open VSX instead. It is a vendor neutral alternative. Also, products like VSCodium, Theia, code-server many other projects are using the registry to allow their users to install extensions. 

Here's a couple of words about why it might not be the best idea to let someone from the community add this extension to [open-vsx/publish-extensions](https://github.com/open-vsx/publish-extensions): https://github.com/open-vsx/publish-extensions#when-to-add-an-extension.

> The docs for publishing the extension are here: https://github.com/eclipse/openvsx/wiki/Publishing-Extensions. Technically this should be straightforward. You basically must get a token and call `ovsx publish` with it. For example, this is how RedHat publishes their java extension: redhat-developer/vscode-java@ff51dbf/Jenkinsfile#L73-L82

Reviewer 2: ```
The docs for publishing the extension are [here](https://github.com/eclipse/openvsx/wiki/Publishing-Extensions). Technically this should be straightforward. You get a token and call `ovsx publish` with it. For example, this is how RedHat publishes their java extension: [redhat-developer/vscode-java@ff51dbf/Jenkinsfile#L73-L82](https://github.com/redhat-developer/vscode-java/blob/5d4f8d58b8e919534800ca7bc41e8513c288f573/Jenkinsfile#L78-L82)

[Here](https://github.com/PeterWone/vsc-print/pull/121) is also an example PR to contribute release GH action which can publish to GitHub, MS and OpenVSX at the same time.
```

Reviewer 2: It is important to use permalinks.

OpenVSX is a vendor neutral alternative to MS marketplace used by all other derivatives of VS Code like [VSCodium](https://vscodium.com/), [Gitpod](gitpod.io), [OpenVSCode](https://github.com/gitpod-io/openvscode-server), [Theia](https://theia-ide.org/) based IDEs, and so on.

The docs for publishing the extension are [here](https://github.com/eclipse/openvsx/wiki/Publishing-Extensions). Technically this should be straightforward. You get a token and call `ovsx publish` with it. For example, this is how RedHat publishes their Java extension: [redhat-developer/vscode-java@ff51dbf/Jenkinsfile#L73-L82](https://github.com/redhat-developer/vscode-java/blob/5d4f8d58b8e919534800ca7bc41e8513c288f573/Jenkinsfile#L78-L82)

[Here](https://github.com/PeterWone/vsc-print/pull/121) is also an example PR that contributes a release GitHub Action which can publish to GitHub, MS and OpenVSX at the same time. Let @filiptronicek or @akosyakov know if you are open to a PR contributing such GitHub Action. They would gladly help out, even if there are just some questions or suggestions.

> Gitpod as well supports open-source developers by providing unlimited access to their platform. Feel free to reach out via https://www.gitpod.io/docs/professional-open-source

Author: We could make this just the raw markdown (just a md code block) for easier copying.

> ## Issue title
> 
> Publish `EXTENSION_NAME` to Open VSX

Reviewer: Should we just use this as the title, otherwise the copy/paster has to update/remove the placeholder title? 

```suggestion
## Publish `EXTENSION_NAME` to Open VSX

```

Author: Hmm I think it wouldn't exactly make sense this way, because there is also a heading saying `Issue Body`. I think it will be even better if we make the issue title a code block the same way as the issue body.

We could also simply have the whole md file be the issue content (make the first heading imply to be used as the issue title), but in this way we can both add notes to the sections (maybe some guidance to the contributors), as well as providing a simple copying experience thanks to the code blocks.

Author: I implemented it as I said here, but we can change it anytime if it does not make sense to you 🙂.

## Issue body

> ```md

Reviewer: Any reason for wrapping in a code block here? As you don't get the markdown formatting?

Author: @loujaybee we decided it would be better for peeps who just go here to copy the template, so they don't copy just the rendered text.

Reviewer: I'd then remove all the boilerplate and simply keep the file to copy/paste the full thing? 🤔  

WDYT?

> Unfortunately MS prohibits usages of MS marketplace by any other products or redistribution vsix files from it. Because of it we kindly ask you to take the ownership of your namespace in [OpenVSX](https://open-vsx.org/) and publish there as well.
> 
> OpenVSX is a vendor neutral alternative to MS marketplace used by all other derivatives of VS Code like [VSCodium](https://vscodium.com/), [Gitpod](gitpod.io), [OpenVSCode](https://github.com/gitpod-io/openvscode-server), [Theia](https://theia-ide.org/) based IDEs, and so on.
> 
> The docs for publishing the extension are [here](https://github.com/eclipse/openvsx/wiki/Publishing-Extensions). Technically this should be straightforward. You get a token and call `ovsx publish` with it. For example, this is how RedHat publishes their Java extension: [redhat-developer/vscode-java@ff51dbf/Jenkinsfile#L73-L82](https://github.com/redhat-developer/vscode-java/blob/5d4f8d58b8e919534800ca7bc41e8513c288f573/Jenkinsfile#L78-L82)
> 
> [Here](https://github.com/PeterWone/vsc-print/pull/121) is also an example PR that contributes a release GitHub Action which can publish to GitHub, MS and OpenVSX at the same time. Let @filiptronicek or @akosyakov know if you are open to a PR contributing such GitHub Action. They would gladly help out, even if there are just some questions or suggestions.
> 
> Gitpod as well supports open-source developers by providing unlimited access to their platform. Feel free to reach out via https://www.gitpod.io/docs/professional-open-source

Reviewer: I'm not so sure on the Gitpod plug in this template, as we don't want Gitpod to be mistaken as the direct owner of Open VSX. I also wouldn't necessarily mention Anton/yourself. 

```suggestion
Dear extension author,

Please publish this extension to the Open VSX marketplace. 

**Context**
Unfortunately, as Microsoft prohibits usages of Microsoft marketplace by any other products or redistribution vsix files from it, in order to use VS Code extensions in non-Microsoft products, we kindly ask that you take ownership of the VS Code extension namespace in [OpenVSX](https://open-vsx.org/) and publish this extension on Open VSX.

**What is OpenVSX? Why does it exist?**
OpenVSX is a vendor neutral alternative to MS marketplace used by all other derivatives of VS Code like [VSCodium](https://vscodium.com/), [Gitpod](gitpod.io), [OpenVSCode](https://github.com/gitpod-io/openvscode-server), [Theia](https://theia-ide.org/) based IDEs, and so on.

**How can you publish to Open VSX?**
The docs to publish an extension can be found [here](https://github.com/eclipse/openvsx/wiki/Publishing-Extensions). This process is straightforward and shouldn't take too long. Essentially, you need an authentication token and to execute the command `ovsx publish` to publish your plugin. See this example from RedHat publishes their Java extension: [redhat-developer/vscode-java@ff51dbf/Jenkinsfile#L73-L82](https://github.com/redhat-developer/vscode-java/blob/5d4f8d58b8e919534800ca7bc41e8513c288f573/Jenkinsfile#L78-L82)

You can also find [an example PR](https://github.com/PeterWone/vsc-print/pull/121) that contributes a release GitHub Action which publishes to GitHub, MS and OpenVSX at the same time. 
```

Author: This looks like a great change, @loujaybee! I would go so far as to add a section linking to the https://github.com/open-vsx/publish-extensions/blob/ft/issue-and-pr-templates/docs/direct_publish_setup.md doc and add a mention of us (or the person that creates the PR) being open to contributing the CI workflow to the target repository.

The idea with the mentions was by @akosyakov, so he probably has some thoughts 😃.

Reviewer 2: I'm fine to drop it. Put Gitpod there to motivate author a bit to become OpenVSX users through it.

Reviewer 3: > I'm not so sure on the Gitpod plug in this template, as we don't want Gitpod to be mistaken as the direct owner of Open VSX. I also wouldn't necessarily mention Anton/yourself.

I agree. As a possible alternative, I am happy to collaborate on a resource that points people to ways they can try Open VSX. One idea is a page on open-vsx.org, a la https://github.com/EclipseFdn/open-vsx.org/issues/773
